# Screen module debugging


Before formally introducing the Screen module debugging process, this section first introduces the basics of screen modules.  
If you have already mastered this knowledge, you can skip this section:
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
屏幕调试/什么是屏幕模组.md
```


After determining the screen module to be used, the user needs to connect the screen to the development board. This work can usually be completed using an adapter board.  
For making an adapter board to connect the development board to the screen, refer to [SF32LB52-DevKit-LCD Adapter Board Fabrication Guide](../board/sf32lb52x/SF32LB52-DevKit-LCD-Adapter.md#qspi-lcd接口转接板)  


After the hardware preparation is complete, you can formally enter the screen module debugging process.
First, please spend a little time understanding the display framework of the SiFli platform. This will be very helpful for subsequent Screen module debugging.
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
屏幕调试/框架介绍.md
```  

First, select different screen debugging methods according to the SDK version. Prefer SDK version 2.4.
First, please spend a little time understanding the directory structure. This will be very helpful for subsequent Screen module debugging.
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
:maxdepth: 2
屏幕调试/目录结构介绍.md
```
Add the screen module according to the document. The process is mainly divided into the following three steps.
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
:maxdepth: 2
屏幕调试/添加屏幕模组（1）.md
```

```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
:maxdepth: 2
屏幕调试/添加屏幕模组（2）.md
```
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
:maxdepth: 2
屏幕调试/添加屏幕模组（3）.md
```

This mainly explains the complete example process for adding a screen module.
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
:maxdepth: 2
屏幕调试/添加屏幕模组操作实例.md


```
After understanding the display framework, you can add a new screen module by following these steps:  

To better use the newly added screen module, refer to
[Application Layer vs Module Driver Layer Function Mapping Table](屏幕调试/应用层vs模组驱动层函数对应表.md),
which lists the mapping relationships of screen-related functions at the application and driver layers, helping clarify the code structure.


Some other issues may also occur during screen debugging. For more information, refer to:
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
屏幕调试/常见通用问题FAQ
```


```{toctree}
:hidden:
屏幕调试/附录.md
```

```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
:maxdepth: 
屏幕调试/频率计算工具.md
```
