# Screen Module Debugging

Before formally introducing the screen module debugging process, this section provides an introduction to the basics of screen modules.  
If you are already familiar with this knowledge, you can skip this part:
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
屏幕调试/什么是屏幕模组.md
```


After determining the screen module to be used, the user needs to connect the screen to the development board, which can typically be accomplished using an adapter board.  
The adapter board for connecting the development board to the screen can be referred to in the [SF32LB52-DevKit-LCD Adapter Board Guide](../board/sf32lb52x/SF32LB52-DevKit-LCD-Adapter.md#qspi-lcd接口转接板).


After completing the hardware preparations, you can proceed to the formal screen module debugging process.
First, please take some time to understand the display framework of the SiCheng platform, which will be very helpful for the subsequent screen module debugging.
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
屏幕调试/框架介绍.md
```  

First, based on the SDK version, choose different screen debugging methods, with priority given to SDK2.4.
First, please take some time to understand the directory structure, which will be very helpful for the subsequent screen module debugging.
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
:maxdepth: 2
屏幕调试/目录结构介绍.md
```
According to the document content, further add the screen module, which mainly involves the following three steps.
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
:maxdepth: 2
屏幕调试/添加屏幕模组（1）.md
```

```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
:maxdepth: 2
屏幕调试/添加屏幕模组（2）.md
```
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
:maxdepth: 2
屏幕调试/添加屏幕模组（3）.md
```

This section mainly explains the entire process of adding a screen module.
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
:maxdepth: 2
屏幕调试/添加屏幕模组操作实例.md


```
After understanding the display framework, users can refer to the following steps to add a new screen module:

To better use the newly added screen module, you can refer to the
[Application Layer vs. Module Driver Layer Function Correspondence Table](屏幕调试/应用层vs模组驱动层函数对应表.md),
which lists the corresponding functions of screen-related functions in the application and driver layers, helping to clarify the code structure.

During screen debugging, there may be other issues. For further reference, see:
```{toctree}
:titlesonly:
屏幕调试/常见通用问题FAQ
```


```{toctree}
:hidden:
屏幕调试/附录.md
```